docs: Add runner adoption workflow to website (#3750)
hashicorp/waypoint: website/content/docs/runner/adoption.mdx

---

# Adoption Workflow

Waypoint runners can exist in various states depending on how they are
initially installed into a platform. Most runners will move from `Pending` to
`Adopted` to `Rejected` states during their entire lifecycle.

## Pending Runners

The `Pending` runner state is the default state which newly installed runners
will be in as they have yet to receive a runner token from the server. Runners
in this state may be configured to talk to a Waypoint Server but have not yet
been adopted by the Server and therefore will not receive jobs to run. Runners
will also show up in this state if they are forgotten about by the server with
the [`waypoint runner forget`](/commands/runner-forget) command.

When in the `Pending` state, runners may be moved into the `Adopted` state by
issuing the [`waypoint runner adopt`](/commands/runner-adopt) command with the
desired Runner ID.

Runners automatically skip this state if they are in the `Preadopted` state.

## Preadopted Runners

When creating a new runner it is possible to generate the runner token which
seeded to the new runner before its initial installation. These runners which

> have an already valid runner token are able to immediately receive jobs from

Author: Added a new `Runner Token` section with a link to Installing additional runners in `1c40a8dca`.

the Waypoint Server when they start. They also skip the `Pending` state to
directly enter the `Preadopted` state.

Preadopted runners may be moved into the `Rejected` state like other runners by
issuing [`waypoint runner reject`](/commands/runner-reject). If a preadopted
runner is rejected a new runner token must be created for the runner before it
is allowed to receive jobs again.

## Adopted Runners

Runners adopted with [`waypoint runner adopt`](/commands/runner-adopt) will
store the runner token received by the server in their configured state
directory. Once a runner has been adopted it may start receiving job
assignments from the Waypoint server as usual.

## Rejected Runners

When a user rejects a Waypoint Runner with the [`waypoint runner reject`](/commands/runner-reject) command the rejected runner is no longer able

> to receive job assignments from the Waypoint Server. Rejected runners will

Reviewer: I think the capitalization of "Waypoint server" and "Waypoint Runner" should be consistent throughout the doc. 😄

continue to appear in the list of runners that the server knows about so that
subsequent requests by this same runner are ignored.

Rejecting a runner does not invalidate its token. If a rejected runner is
forgotten the previously rejected runner may reconnect to the server as long as

> its token is good. This runner will be able to accept jobs as if it were never

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its token is not expired. This runner will be able to accept jobs as if it were never
```

rejected in the first place. By default runner tokens are valid for 30 days and

> upon expiring they will need to be recreated with [`waypoint runner token`](/commands/runner-token) and reconfigured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
upon expiring they will need to be recreated with [`waypoint runner token`](/commands/runner-token) and reconfigured.
```
